In the last video,
we saw three methods for working with missing data.
The first of these methods was to remove rows or columns holding the missing values.
First, it is useful to ask yourself why these values are missing.
Often dropping data from your dataset can lead to bias models,
this is also true for imputing data points.
There isn't a universal best way for working with missing data,
so exploring different options can help you determine what's best for your situation.
If missing data occurs from individuals who are not willing to share information,
and you build a model simply excluding those individuals,
you are likely to get poor results.
Consider a survey that asks participants 150 questions about their personality type.
I don't know about you,
but I'm likely to give up after two or three questions.
If you ask questions about relationships or financials in the survey,
a lack of response to these questions might indicate one personality type over another.
Dropping these missing values would remove information that we might be able to use.
For example, we could create a column to keep track
of which questions each individual left blank,
or we can keep track of the number of missing values that occurred for each respondent.
In these cases, we're actually using the missing data to improve predictions.
However, removing individuals or columns with
missing data would likely hurt predictions due to the reduced information.